---
layout: post
title: "Gyros"
date: 2011-10-07 00:55:47 -0500
---

Yield: 4 servings

!!Ingredients
* 1 1/2 lb Shoulder lamb
* 1 lb Beef chuck
* 1/4 c Dehydrated onions
* 1/3 c Water
* 1 tb Salt
* 1 ts Sugar
* 2 ts Oregano
* 2 ts Black pepper; coarsely ground
* 1 ts Cumin
* 1 ts Hot paprika
* 1/2 ts Cinnamon
* 2 Cloves garlic; pressed or minced
* 2 tb Vegetable oil
* Butter


!!Directions 
including some fat 8 or more slices blanched bacon or
fresh pork belly slices, if available Grind lamb and beef together,
using large hole plate on meat grinder. Regrind using small hole
plate. In small bowl reconstitute onions in water. In another small
bowl combine next 6 ingredients and mix thoroughly. In large bowl
combine meat, onions and spice mix. Add garlic and vegetable oil; mix
thoroughly with hands until spices are evenly distributed;
refrigerate, covered, several hours. In a small skillet, fry a small
amount of the meat mixture in a little butter. Taste for seasoning and
adjust, if desired. Blanch bacon by simmering in hot water about 3
minutes. If pork belly is used, blanching is not necessary. Drain on
paper towels. Line loaf pan (8 1/2 x 5 x 3") with bacon or pork
slices, covering sides and bottom; pack gyros meat into pan, filling
to the top of the pan. Cover with remaining slices of bacon or
pork. Place filled pan in hot water bath, reaching 3/3/4 of the way up
the loaf pan. Bake at 375^F. for 20-30 minutes. Reduce heat to 325^
and continue baking 30 minutes longer. Remove pan from oven; remove
loaf pan from hot water bath and place on wire rack to cool. Cover
with aluminum foil and weigh with about 2 lbs weight to compress
loaf. Cool to room temperature; refrigerate meat, covered with weight
12 hours or overnight to ripen and increase flavor. Meat will keep for
up to 4 days refrigerated. Slice thin and serve in pita bread with
sliced onions, tomatoes and tzatziki sauce. (I don't have a meat
grinder and usually call my butcher and request the grinding. I also
prefer this recipe with the elimination of the cinnamon. Sorry, I
don't frequent this board very often so any ?s will have to be
referred via e-mail. I also have a recipe for the tzatziki sauce, but
one is posted on this board under Gyros. This recipe is every bit as
good as those served in Greektown (Detroit).

FROM: GEORGINA PHILLIPS (`DPBF70B)
(:if false:)
Summary:recipe for making Gyros meat at home
Parent:(Recipes.)MainDishes
IncludeMe:[[MainDishes]]
Tags:greek, gyros, sandwiches, lamb 
(:tags-hide greek, gyros, sandwiches, lamb :)
Categories:[[!Lunch]], [[!GreekCuisine]], [[!MainDish]]
Source: [[RecipeSource: Gyros (Meat) ->  http://www.recipesource.com/ethnic/europe/greek/gyros3.html]]
(:ifend:)

